---
layout: distill
title: al-folio
description: "Guide: creating your website with al-folio" 
date: 2026-06-10
tags: [code]
thumbnail: assets/posts/alfolio.jpg
---

In this post, I'll explain how to setup a website using [al-folio](https://github.com/alshedivat/al-folio). Their github is well-documented, and most of the information here is a distillate of [their quickstart page](https://github.com/alshedivat/al-folio/blob/main/docs/QUICKSTART.md), and [their customisation guide](https://github.com/alshedivat/al-folio/blob/main/docs/CUSTOMIZE.md). Note that this guide was made with [al-folio v1.0](https://github.com/alshedivat/al-folio/releases/tag/v1.0).



## I. Creating a github repository for your website

- **I.1** create a github account at https://github.com/

- **I.2** go to https://github.com/alshedivat/al-folio and click on the top-right *Use this template/Create a new repository*. Name your repository `<github username>.github.io`. To deploy the website, the repository needs to be public.

- **I.3** in the github interface, navigate to *Settings → Actions → General → Workflow permissions* and turn on *Read and write permissions* (don't forget to click *Save*)

- **I.4** open `_config.yml` and fill in the following fields:

    ```yaml
    title: blank
    first_name: <your first name>
    last_name: <your last name>
    url: https://<github username>.github.io
    baseurl:
    ```

`title: blank` uses your name as title in the top-right, you can change it to something else if you want. `baseurl:` should have nothing after the colon.

Once you've done this change, commit it to the `main` branch.

## Some basic info about your website repo
- `_config.yml` governs the global configuration for your website
- the pages (tabs at the top) of your website are located in `_pages/`. To customise their position and enable/disable them, modify the header (yaml information delimited by `---`): for example:

    ```yaml
    layout: page                # tells the backend what layout to use
    permalink: /publications/   # address: <username>.github.io/publications/
    title: publications         # page title
    description: my work        # page description
    nav: true                   # appears in the top navigation bar
    nav_order: 2                # appears in 2nd position on the top bar
    ```

Note that a disabled page will still be accessible by typing its address.

## II. Deploying the site

- **II.1** in the github interface, go to the *Actions* tab and wait until you have a ✅ on all actions for your last commit. (~2 to 5 min)

Note: if your repository is private, the `ruby` and `javascript-typescript` jobs will fail.

- **II.2** navigate to *Settings → Pages → Build and deployment*: for *Source*, select *Deploy from a branch*, then choose the branch `gh-pages`. 

Note: to un-deploy your website, you can choose `None` in the branch selection in **II.2**.

## III. About page

- **III.0** The main page of your website is defined in `_pages/about.md`. In that file, the content written beneath the header is standard Markdown that your can edit as you please.

- **III.1** change your profile picture by replacing `assets/img/prof_pic.jpg`. You can also change the path by editing the header in `_pages/about.md`:

    ```yaml
    profile:
        image: <path to your image within the repo>
    ```

- **III.2** to set up your social links, go to `_data/socials.yml`. For example:

    ```yaml
    email: <your email>
    github_username: <github username>
    hal_id: <hal id>
    scholar_userid: <id for google scholar>
    ```
for a list of compatible entries and how to add custom ones, see the [jekyll-socials documentation](https://github.com/george-gca/jekyll-socials).

## IV. Publications page

Your publications page is defined in `_pages/publications` and reads automatically the file `_data/papers.bib`. Some `bibtex` fields will be rendered as clickable buttons on your publication page. Here's an example below:

```bibtex
@Article{article_id,
  abbr = {PREPRINT},
  title = {title},
  author = {authors},
  journal = {journal},
  year = {year},
  month = Aug,
  abstract={},
  bibtex_show=true,
  pdf = {https://<username>.github.io/assets/pdf/paper.pdf},
  poster = {https://<username>.github.io/assets/pdf/poster.pdf},
  code = {code_url},
  slides = {https://<username>.github.io/assets/pdf/slides.pdf},
  preview = {preview.png}
}
```
`abbr` will be used to create a blue banner next to your paper entry.  `preview` will add an image preview next to your paper. In this example, the file is located at `assets/img/publication_preview/preview.png`. PDFs are not supported :c

The following entries create a button:

|    field    |      button      |
|:-----------:|:----------------:|
| abstract    | shows abstract   |
| bibtex_show | shows .bib entry |
|     pdf     |    link to pdf   |
|    poster   |  link to poster  |
|     code    |   link to code   |
| slides      | link to slides   |

## V. CV

To add your cv to your website, you have 3 options (I chose **V.c** personally as of the time of writing).

- **V.a** add a PDF in your socials in `_data/socials.yml`, for example:

    ```yaml
    cv_pdf: /assets/pdf/cv.pdf
    ```

- **V.b** use `RenderCV` by editing `_pages/cv.md` in the [RenderCV format](https://docs.rendercv.com/user_guide/yaml_input_structure/cv/). For more info, also look at the [al-folio CV documentation](https://docs.rendercv.com/user_guide/yaml_input_structure/cv/). RenderCV can automatically output a pdf, which is really cool but the format was too constraining for me.

- **V.c** write your CV in a custom page: just edit/create `_pages/cv.md` and have a header that looks something like:

    ```yaml
    layout: page
    permalink: /cv/
    title: cv
    nav: true
    nav_order: 4
    ```

## VI. Google search console

To help with the visibility of your website on the internet, you can reference it yourself in the [google search console](https://search.google.com/search-console). Create an account or login, then provide your website url. Google will give you a file that looks with `<wifi password>.html`, add it to the root of your directory, and enable the field `enable_google_verification` in `_config.yml`.

## Troubleshooting

- If you get github action errors that mention *prettier*, just delete the file `.github/workflows/prettier.yml` to disable the action. *Prettier* is a code formatter used for aesthetics, if you really want to use it you can solve most problems by running it locally:

    ```bash
    npm install --save-dev --save-exact prettier @shopify/prettier-plugin-liquid
    npx prettier . --check
    npx prettier . --write
    ```

- I got a LOT of errors with the *Integrations tests* action, these are mainly for contributing to `al-folio`, so if you also have issues, just delete `.github/workflows/unit-tests.yml`. If you have an issue on your website, you can just see it on your website.